+++
title = "Vienna"
template = "page.html"
+++

**1/22** -- Arrived in Vienna, moved into shared apartment on Margaretenstrasse, met roommates, went to Zwölf Apostelkeller for dinner (very cool setting, OK food), then slept for a longgg time.

**1/23** -- Bought groceries at Hofer (Austrian version of Aldi), went to first orientation session, walked around 1st district -- most touristy area, but very cool; kind of like Times Square but with lots of cobbled streets and alleyways -- saw Wiener Staatsoper, and went inside St. Stephen's Cathedral (INCREDIBLE -- WILL BE BACK)

**1/24** -- Another info session in the morning, then a walking tour of the 1st district led by a funny older guy who's lived in Vienna his entire life. Pointed out many many sights, including Josefsplatz (a public square at the Hofburg Palace), Stallburg (the former imperial stables), and the balcony from which Hitler delivered the Anschluss speech declaring the annexation of Austria by the Third Reich. Paid too much for coffee at a little cafe and then got a hamburger from McDonalds. Then a guided tour of the Leopold Museum -- lots of great stuff by Klimt and Schiele, and a self-portrait by Schoenberg. Will also be back here.

**1/25** -- Started the day with the first class of my two-week German intensive, taught by Prof. Summesberger, a very sweet older Austrian woman. Cool animal-print scarf. She talked about learning Russian as a child, since she grew up in a district in Vienna that the USSR was in control of post-WWII. Then another information session before returning home for lunch. In the afternoon, I talked with Heidi, a coordinator for IES who matches students with schools in Vienna so they can work as teaching assistants; I'm hoping to teach English and maybe also music. After finishing a phone interview with a company in the US, I had some chicken soup that EB made for dinner and chatted with roommates until it was time to slept.

**1/26** -- After my second German intensive class, I wandered around for a while trying to find a store that sold notebooks. I ended up walking around the campus of TU Wien, the technical university in the city, for a while, before eventually finding a shop. I bought a couple notebooks and a pen, and also a copy of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (in German) that I'm going to try to read to pick up new vocabulary. In the evening, I cooked a big pot of Japanese curry for the apartment, which felt very nice. Looking forward to doing more cooking soon!

**1/27** -- Very chill day. Mostly just hung out in the apartment; shopped and did laundry. Read a bit more Harry Potter.

**1/28** -- My roommate, Aaron, arrived in our apartment in the morning. He was several days late because he caught mononucleosis right before he was originally supposed to leave. Luckily, he is no longer contagious! Later, the whole apartment went on a little day trip to Donauinsel, a long artificial island between the Danube river and the "New Danube", a channel that was dug to prevent flooding in the city. The Donauinsel is the most popular recreational area in the city; we saw a ton of people walking, running, and biking, and there are lots of spots that people will go swimming once it gets a little warmer. There were also many boats docked along the shore of the island with big fishing nets and signs warning people not to tresspass. Learned the German word for dog park (Hundezone). Got pizza afterwards in the 22nd district.

**1/29** -- Back to school! Jumped right back into the German intensive; we discussed the imperative case and various time-related prepositions & nouns. Later in the afternoon, attended the first information session for the teaching assistant internship. This seems like it will be really great. The coordinator talked a lot about the differences between the American and European styles of education (ex. no dress codes, kids have the same teacher and cohort throughout all of elementary school) and also told us a few anecdotes about growing up in post-WWII Austria. One story from her childhood: pre-WWII, after her grandfather said "I think bad things are going to happen if this Hitler guy gets any real power", the SS visited him and told him he could either go to a concentration camp or enlist in the army, so he enlisted in the army. Once the war broke out, he was taken as a prisoner of war by the US, who fed him so well that when he returned home, he was in better shape than his family, who had all been starving in their home in Austria.

**1/30** -- After German intensive in the morning, had another information session for the education internship. I'm continually impressed by the resolve and general attitude of Heidi, the coordinator, and am looking forward to learning more from her; really hoping I'm selected for the final cut of people. Went out with roommates & some friends from the apartment across the hall to Travel Shack, a "traveler's and student bar" that was fascinating to observe but very deeply not my thing.

**1/31** -- No German today. Instead, half the study abroad cohort went on a day trip to Linz. Incredible. The 5 impressions I shared with Felix: 
1. So many beautiful pastel buildings around the city center.
2. The courtyard of the art school that was designed by Hitler's architects when he was trying to make Linz, which he considered his hometown, a cultural center of the Third Reich
3. Our ride up Pöstlingberg, a very large hill with a church on top and a beautiful view of the city.
4. A woman on the tram ride back down with two very young children in a stroller. They were just starting to learn to talk, and were making German-sounding noises but not really saying words. One of them asked for a bite of her mom's banana by going "ahh! ah ah!!" until she was fed, and then her brother made the exact same noise to ask for a bite for himself. People!
5. The taste of Linzertorte, a local specialty consisting of a nutty shortbread and redcurrant preserves.
I was exhausted by the end. Am hoping to return some weekend to see the Lentos Art Museum.

**2/1** -- In the morning, dropped off my Meldezettel, or housing registration form, with the city government so they don't fine me €726. The Austrian equivalent of a DMV seemed to be running much more efficiently than the ones I've been to in St. Louis, but that's a small sample size. So who knows. Spent the better part of the evening studying for our class's first German test tomorrow.

**2/2** -- Started the day by taking our first German test, which I thought went well. Directly afterwards, we went as a class to Cafe Frauenhuber, a coffeehouse. I ordered my first Wiener Melange (very similar to a cappuccino) and a Topfenstrudel. After leaving the coffeehouse, went to the train station to print out a ticket to Bratislava (capital of Slovakia) for Saturday. Later in the day, visited Polyklamott, a very cool vintage secondhand store. I bought an epic sweater and epic pants. They had a vending machine (on wheels) outside filled with various pieces of jewelry and sunglasses.

**2/3** -- Huge day trip to Bratislava. Hopped on a train at 9:25 a.m. and arrived around an hour later. We spent a long time just walking around the city and taking in all the great great architecture -- lots of stuff similar to Vienna but also some more Soviet-looking brutalist buildings. I got a Hungarian folk music LP for €5 and a nice flannel for €10. We had the best pierogis and goulash that I've ever eaten for lunch. Heard a clarinetist busking on the street playing the Godfather theme. Went into St. Martin's cathedral and looked around while the organist was practicing -- we heard Messaien's Apparition de L'eglise Eternelle and some other really beautiful stuff that I didn't recognize. Pet a cat chilling on a chair out on the street. Finished the day by going up to Bratislava Castle. Amazing view of the city and cool castle grounds/gardens to explore.

**2/4** -- Mostly a rest & recovery day from the Slovakia outing. Made a bomb-ass breakfast sandwich -- ingredients: prosciutto, eggs, emmenthaler &(!) parmesan cheese. The apartment did go to the Wien Museum (which is among the museums that are free on the first Sunday of the month) for a couple hours, and that was really great. Cool paintings by Klimt, Schiele, Schönberg, Gerstl. Lots of fun bonus things to do among the exhibits, like a chainmail helmet you could try on.

**2/5** -- Back to school, again. German intensive is getting pretty intense. We are now drilling present perfect hard and are required to keep a diary to be turned in at the end of the week. Spent a long while in the practice rooms in the afternoon working on Spohr's Concerto No. 1 and also on writing something to play with EB.

**2/6** -- Very average day. Asked to exchange a 5-euro bill for 5 1-euro coins at the grocery store down the block using German, and the cashier understood what I was saying, which felt like a win. Got the repertoire I'll be playing for the chamber music workshop, and am starting to really look forward to that.

**2/7** -- A pleasant day off from classes. I spent some time in the morning practicing the chamber music I'll be playing this semester, and then rode the U4 all the way to the end of the line to attend a wine tasting at a traditional Viennese heuriger. A heuriger is a rustic wine tavern where a winemaker lives and seasonally serves freshly made wine; the term "heuriger" can also refer to a wine that is less than a year old. The tasting was led by a really enthusiastic Austrian guy who grew up on a vineyard and had a wonderfully color-coordinated outfit (dark red shoes, watchband, shirt, and glasses). My favorite was Gruner Veltliner, a traditional and popular Austrian white wine. In the 19th district, right where we got off the subway, was the Karl-Marx-Hof, a housing complex and one of the longest residential buildings in the world. Cool architecture & statues.

**2/8** -- Visited Schönbrunn Palace, the place where the Habsburgs lived during the summer. Massive imposing building and endless gardens that were a little bare because it isn't quite spring yet. Walked up a big hill to get a nice view of most of Vienna. Encountered a real-life Austrian nationalist who talked to us for a while about how the city is being overrun by migrants and also seemed to think there was a crisis at the US border caused by an influx of Chinese immigrants trying to illegally cross it.

**2/9** -- Second and final test of the German intensive, and I think it went totally fine. Went out to a coffeehouse, Kaffee Alt Wien, to celebrate afterwards; I got a Wiener Melange and Apfelstrudel. Both very yummy.

**2/10** -- Spent most of the morning hiking on one of the hiking trails maintained by the city (Stadtwanderweg 1), which was really great. Started by climbing up through the outskirts of the city, around Grinzing, through a quiet residential area and then eventually lots of vineyards. Summited Kahlenberg, a small mountain, and got an amazing view of the whole city and the Danube river. Successfully used German to buy a fried potato puff thing from a street vendor. Also did some light bird-watching; heard and then located a great tit. In the evening, went out to a nightclub with friends. Lame energy and bad music but had fun people-watching.

**2/11** -- Visited the Jewish Museum Vienna. Lots of very cool art and sobering artifacts from WWII, including the titular hare with amber eyes from Edmund de Waal's book. Interesting to see how they've adapted messaging around exhibits in the wake of Oct. 7th. There were two locations, one main one and another smaller one near the ruins of a medieval synagogue (underground, accessible through museum. coolest part of the day). Interestingly, the wall text in the smaller one was definitely more overtly Zionist than at the larger and much more popular campus.

**2/12** -- First day of real classes! The first meeting of our acoustics/recording technology class seemed very promising. We have access to a legit professional-quality recording studio and lots of high-end equipment, which is really exciting. The teacher, Miguel Kertsman, is a real-deal producer/composer/performer who was quite charismatic and also name-dropped a lot of famous bands he's worked with (lol). Also ate a really good pistachio-cream Berliner from the Strück in the train station.

**2/13** -- Return to German classes, and also the first meeting of our classical music history class. Not a ton to report from today other than that the professor for the music history class was scarily incompetent. We kind of just sat around while she stared into space, occasionally read a few words from a PowerPoint that she didn't write, and then played a 10-minute piece by CPE or WF or JC Bach in its entirety. Lame!

**2/14** -- Rough day. Had the first organizational meeting for the education internship, so I found out which school I'd been matched with and talked with a teacher who works there. Directly afterwards, started scheduling rehearsals for the chamber music workshop class and realized that I wouldn't have time to teach in the school on top of everything else I'm responsible for, so had to go back and inform the coordinator for the internship. Bummer, but also the right move long-term, I think. Got to play the Mozart clarinet concerto in a room with really nice acoustics later that night, which felt great as a way to let off some of the stress/sadness I was feeling -- just pure energy being expelled as I performed.

**2/15** -- Second meeting for the terrible music history class today. More or less confirmed that every class is going to go just like the first one did. Bummer!

**2/16** -- Didn't do much besides attend German class in the morning. 

**2/17** -- Went to the Naschmarkt in the morning. Very cool open-air market with endless stalls selling various foodstuffs and also flea market junk/treasure, but was a little overwhelming. Would like to go back once in a better mood.

**2/18** -- Jogged around the 5th district, which was a nicely re-invigorating experience. Caught up on homework and practiced clarinet in preparation for upcoming rehearsals.

**2/19** -- Went on another run in the morning, felt similarly great. I followed the path of the U4 line into the 6th district -- turns out running is a really great way to get to know a city. Later in the day, attended the second meeting of the acoustics class, which was again very interesting. Talked a lot about decibels, hearing loss thresholds.

**2/20** -- Very full and satisfying day. Following morning German class, had a piano coaching with Chihiro Gordon (also my professor for the chamber music workshop class). I brought Debussy's Premiere Rhapsody to work on, since its the piece I'm considering playing for next year's concerto competition at Williams. Since it was my first time playing the piece with an accompanist, things were fairly choppy throughout our first run-through. Over the course of the hour, though, I got a lot of good feedback (sustained airflow big one to remember; I feel like this is an aspect of my playing that always suffers when I haven't been in lessons for a while) and felt poised to make great progress on the piece in the coming days. Later, had rehearsals for Tarantella (w/ oboe + flute) and Heimatlied (w/ piano and vocalist). Both went well. 

**2/21** -- Met a friend from Williams who's been studying abroad in London in the evening for dinner at Dancing Noodles, a restaurant known for its Lamian (Chinese pulled wheat noodles). The food, a beef broth w/ bean sprouts/kimchi/beef/the noodles, was great. It was very nice to see + catch up with him, and after we finished eating, we went to ZWE, a jazz club, to hear some live music and meet up with another Williams friend. We stayed for a while, listening to a really great ensemble play, which was followed by a jam session open to anyone in the audience. All very cool!

**2/22** -- Met up with Williams friends again for coffee and apple strudel at Cafe Korb. Then walked to Stephansplatz to show them the cathedral. In the evening, we met up again at the Musikverein to see the Wiener Symphoniker play pieces by Haydn, Mozart, and Bartok. The soloist for Mozart's Piano Concerto in C minor had a wonderful delicacy to his playing, and was called back out 3 times by the audience before he did an encore. The Bartok Concerto for Orchestra was totally otherworldly. Absolute delight and great to get to see it with friends; we said our goodbyes on the train and I made plans to visit London over spring break.

**2/23** -- After German in the morning, met up with a different friend from Williams (apparently everyone is visiting this week!) and headed to the Kunsthistoriches [art history] museum, which is the largest museum in Austria. Spent a few hours exploring their collection of Flemish/Dutch paintings. Saw works by Rembrandt, Vermeer, Van Eyck, Rubens, but the best part was the room containing the largest collection of paintings by Pieter Breugel the Elder in the world. Crazy to behold what he's doing -- paintings with like 100 guys all doing their own thing / also depictions of religious & mythological scenes (think Fall of Icarus, Christ carrying the cross) where the main subject takes up like 1/50th of the total space. I was instantly made a fan. We got overpriced coffee in the museum cafe afterwards, and I had my first Einspänner, which is a double espresso topped with whipped cream. Yeah alright pretty yummy.

**2/24** -- After a few hours of practice on my own and with other people in my chamber ensembles, I was treated to a delicious homemade leek soup by a roommate :). Following this, we went together to hear Mahler's Symphony 2, which was just incredible obviously. The power of the final climax had me weeping in the standing room. Music !!!