+++
title = "seven dogs"
description = "short story about two celebrity therapists"
+++

When I’m four years old, my parents sign me up for swimming lessons. I guess they (my dad especially) think that it’s important that I know how to swim. All the other kids learn a lot faster than me, and when they’re starting to learn backstroke I’m still holding onto a “kick board”, I guess that’s what it’s called. Anyway it’s made of yellow foam with teeth marks on it and chunks missing and I’m kicking my legs and trying to keep them straight. But I can’t kick them fast enough, or I’m not keeping them straight enough, because I can never stay horizontal and pretty soon I just sink down into the water. One day after swimming lessons as I’m toweling off, I see through the chain link fence that encloses the pool area with the big umbrellas, white chairs, and sparkling pool, and I see a pack of seven dogs. They look vicious with big white sparkling teeth and nasty faces, and I shouldn’t have looked for so long because when they notice me they all of a sudden run up together to the chain link fence, and they all start jumping and barking and gnashing their teeth, trying to get at me. I’m just a little kid so I'm scared of them and I want to get far away, but I also can’t leave the pool area enclosed by the chain link fence since then the dogs would rip me to shreds, so I don’t know what to do and I just start to cry. When the lifeguard who was teaching the swimming lesson sees me crying, she picks me up and throws me right back in the pool. She says that if I get better at swimming, the dogs won’t be able to catch me. I’m so tired and scared but I don’t know what else I can do so I hold onto the “kick board” and I try to keep my legs really straight. 

Later in life I become a commercial watercolor painter and I am employed by a greeting card company. For the greeting card company I paint pictures of forests, lakes, sunsets, and other nice things. In my spare time at my apartment I paint lots of pictures of the seven dogs with their nasty faces. I don’t have many friends, but the ones I do know about this habit and think it’s strange. One of them tells me about this married couple that she’s seen on TV who are therapists called the Speakmans, and how they help people overcome their phobias and how it really seems like they’ve changed some lives for the better. I wish I was married. I try to tell my friend that I’m not scared of dogs but I don’t think she believes me, and for Christmas she gives me a ticket to a workshop called “Upgrade Your Life” that the Speakmans are running at a convention center in my city. The ticket includes a consultation with the Speakmans so they can help you lose weight or stop being anxious or overcome your phobia or whatever you want. Since the ticket is free I figure I might be able to at least get some advice on how to meet people and be more confident in general, so on the day of the workshop, I drive to the convention center and park in a nearby parking garage. As I  walk through the parking garage I can’t shake the feeling that I’m underground.

The “Upgrade Your Life” workshop is wonderful. It’s a day-long event that kicks off with the Speakmans curing a woman of her phobia of worms onstage, which is really inspiring. After the woman holds a rubber worm in her hands, demonstrating that she has been cured, everyone claps for a long time. After this, the Speakmans retire to a private room to do the consultations. While I’m waiting, I get a cup of coffee and look at the books the Speakmans have for sale. When it’s my turn, I step into the tiny room. The first thing I notice about the Speakmans, now that I'm up close, is how beautiful they are. Their skin is free of wrinkles and blemishes, their bodies are toned and tan, and their teeth are blindingly white. I greet them with a weak but kindly smile and take my place, opposite them, at the table they’re sitting at. I start trying to explain that I want to be more confident in social situations, but the wife Speakman interrupts me. “We heard about you. You’re the one with the phobia of the seven dogs.” I say “No, that’s not true. I’m not scared of dogs.” The husband Speakman looks right at me and says “Usually, the root cause of a phobia has got nothing to do with what you’re scared of. Phobias are related to trauma we experience when we’re young. Do you remember when you first felt this fear of the seven dogs?” I start saying something about the swimming lessons but the wife Speakman interrupts me again and says “What I want you to consider is — think about all the good times you had with the seven dogs at the pool. You’re letting one bad memory ruin those seven dogs for you forever, and that’s not fair at all.” Now I can’t seem to talk anymore and for some reason I look behind me and I see the seven dogs jumping and barking and gnashing their teeth trying to get at me from behind the door to the tiny room. The husband Speakman looks right at me. Wordlessly, he stands up from the table, walks over to the door, and opens it. I’m paralyzed. I look over at the wife Speakman and I see her smiling with her big white sparkling teeth and all of a sudden the dogs run up to me and grab my legs from behind and start pulling. I try to hang onto the rim of the table in front of me but the dogs are so strong that they pull me straight out behind the table as I’m holding on so I’m horizontal with my belly facing the floor. I close my eyes and hold my breath and kick as hard as I can but the seven dogs tear me from limb to limb. They actually disembowel me and after my death my landlord clearing out my apartment finds all those pictures of them I had made over the years. On a whim he calls his uncle who’s an art critic in New York and he comes to see them and actually writes an article about them for Artforum magazine. My pictures of the seven dogs are hailed as a singular example of American outsider art and they actually end up in a permanent exhibit at the Met alongside my gnawed-over bones.
